The leg raise is a strength training exercise which targets the iliopsoas 
(the anterior hip flexors). Because the abdominal muscles are used 
isometrically to stabilize the body during the motion, leg raises are 
also often used to strengthen the rectus abdominis muscle and the 
internal and external oblique muscles.
Angles
Lying
The lying leg raise is done by lying on the floor on the back. It is done 
without apparatus except possibly cushions or weights for added resistance.

Practitioners generally caution to keep the lower back in contact with 
the floor and place hands to sides or under lower back for support.

Due to leverage, the hardest portion of a supine (lying) leg raise is generally 
the first part when the legs are on the floor, as this is when the femur is parallel 
with the earth and perpendicular to the pull of gravity.

Side-lying
Side Leg Raise.jpg
Side-lying leg raises target the hip adductors within the inner thigh. They are 
performed by lying on the side with support coming from one hand placed on 
the ground and the opposite foot placed on the ground in front of the lower leg. 
With the top leg slightly flexed and resting, the bottom leg is adducted upwards 
against gravity and relaxed down to the ground.

Seated
A "knee raise" type of seated leg raise, with flexed knee joint.
A seated leg raise is halfway between a lying raise and a hanging/suspended/tractioned 
one. They are done seated on an elevated surface. Usually the hands are placed on the 
surface (or arm rests)[2] and bear some of the body's weight to lessen the weight borne 
on the buttocks and increase abdominal recruitment.

Tractioned
Leg raises can also be performed hanging onto an overhead bar. These are known as 
hanging leg raises and are more challenging than lying leg raises.
They can also be performed on other apparatuses such as dip bars and captain's chairs, 
which also involve the torso being suspended in the air, except that the stress through the 
arms is different.
This variation of leg raise allows the pelvis to freely rotate. It is generally the more difficult 
variation for the abdominal muscles due to having to support the pelvic weight as opposed 
to simply stabilizing its alignment.
Alongside this however, it is also potentially the easiest to use bad form on, because users 
may use a swinging motion to 'cheat' by building up momentum. If the abs are not properly 
engaged, the spine can easily hyperextend and go into anterior pelvic tilt. It should be going 
into posterior pelvic tilt if the movement is being done to target the rectus abdominis.
This movement can also be done with "ab slings" which hold the humeri in ~90 degrees of 
shoulder flexion. This allows one to do a more traditional crunch by bringing the knees up to 
touch the elbows. It is however possible to assist in this movement by using the lats and other 
muscles to perform shoulder extension.

Force
The demands of force on the muscles can be increased through altered posture or apparatus.

Joints
Extending the knee joint (often called a straight leg raise)[3] increases the demands of leverage 
on both hip and spine flexors. It also allows the rectus femoris muscle to contribute, for both the 
supine straight leg raise and the hanging straight leg raise versions, although the muscle will be 
in active insufficiency in the latter case.

The generic term "leg raise" usually indicates a bended knee, though the term "knee raise" is used 
to distinguish it from the category which includes both variations.

Weights
The exercise can also be done weighted, such as wearing ankle weights or weighted boots, holding a 
dumbbell between the feet, or slipping one's feet through kettlebells. These weights are also affected 
by the increased leverage of a straightened knee.