Virabhadra's Pose is also known as the Warrior Pose (there are three 
variation of Warrior, of which this is customarily numbered I). It may 
seem strange to name a yoga pose after a warrior; after all, aren't 
yogis known for their non-violent ways? But remember that one of 
the most revered of all the yoga texts, the Bhagavad-Gita, is the dialog 
between two famous and feared warriors, Krishna and Arjuna, set on 
a battlefield between two great armies spoiling for a fight.

Warrior I Pose: Step-by-Step Instructions
Step 1
Stand in Tadasana (Mountain Pose). With an exhale, step or lightly jump 
your feet 31/2 to 4 feet apart. Raise your arms perpendicular to the floor 
(and parallel to each other), and reach actively through the little-finger 
sides of the hands toward the ceiling. Firm your scapulas against your back 
and draw them down toward the coccyx.

Step 2
Turn your left foot in 45 to 60 degrees to the right and your right foot out 90 
degrees to the right. Align the right heel with the left heel. Exhale and rotate 
your torso to the right, squaring the front of your pelvis as much as possible 
with the front edge of your mat. As the left hip point turns forward, press the 
head of the left femur back to ground the heel. Lengthen your coccyx toward 
the floor, and arch your upper torso back slightly.

Step 3
With your left heel firmly anchored to the floor, exhale and bend your right 
knee over the right ankle so the shin is perpendicular to the floor. More flexible 
students should align their right thigh parallel to the floor.

Step 4
Reach strongly through your arms, lifting the ribcage away from the pelvis. 
As you ground down through the back foot, feel a lift that runs up the back leg, 
across the belly and chest, and up into the arms. If possible, bring the palms together. 
Spread the palms against each other and reach a little higher through the pinky-sides 
of the hands.
Keep your head in a neutral position, gazing forward, or tilt it back and look up at your 
thumbs.

Step 5
Stay for 30 seconds to a minute. To come up, inhale, press the back heel firmly into the 
floor and reach up through the arms, straightening the right knee. Turn the feet forward 
and release the arms with an exhalation, or keep them extended upward for more challenge. 
Take a few breaths, then turn the feet to the left and repeat for the same length. When 
you're finished return to Tadasana.