Virabhadra = the name of a fierce warrior, an incarnation of Shiva, 
described as having a thousand heads, a thousand eyes, and a 
thousand feet, wielding a thousand clubs, and wearing a tiger's skin

Warrior II Pose: Step-by-Step Instructions
Step 1
Stand in Tadasana (Mountain Pose). With an exhalation, step or 
lightly jump your feet 3 1/2 to 4 feet apart. Raise your arms parallel 
to the floor and reach them actively out to the sides, shoulder blades 
wide, palms down.

Step 2
Turn your right foot slightly to the right and your left foot out to the 
left 90 degrees. Align the left heel with the right heel. Firm your thighs 
and turn your left thigh outward so that the center of the left knee cap 
is in line with the center of the left ankle.

Step 3
Exhale and bend your left knee over the left ankle, so that the shin is 
perpendicular to the floor. If possible, bring the left thigh parallel to 
the floor. Anchor this movement of the left knee by strengthening the 
right leg and pressing the outer right heel firmly to the floor.

Step 4
Stretch the arms away from the space between the shoulder blades, 
parallel to the floor. Don't lean the torso over the left thigh: Keep the 
sides of the torso equally long and the shoulders directly over the pelvis. 
Press the tailbone slightly toward the pubis. Turn the head to the left and 
look out over the fingers.

Step 5
Stay for 30 seconds to 1 minute. Inhale to come up. Reverse the feet and
 repeat for the same length of time to the left.

Contraindications and Cautions
Diarrhea
High blood pressure
Neck problems: Don't turn your head to look over the front hand; continue 
to look straight ahead with both sides of the neck lengthened evenly.
Modifications and Props
If you have difficulty supporting yourself in this pose, position a metal folding 
chair outside your left leg, with the front edge of the chair seat facing you. As 
you bend the left knee to come into the pose, slide the front edge of the seat 
under your left thigh (taller students may need to build up the height of the 
chair seat with a thickly folded blanket). Repeat with the right leg bent.

Deepen the Pose
To increase the length and strength of the arms in the pose, turn the palms and 
inner elbow creases to face the ceiling while you draw the shoulder blades down 
the back. Then maintaining the rotation of the arms, turn the palms from the 
wrists to face the floor again.